Theory Section (40 points):

HTML Basics (10 points):

● What is the purpose of the HTML <DOCTYPE> declaration?

The HTML DOCTYPE declaration is the first line of code for HTML or XHTML documents.
It instructs the web browser about the version of HTML , and it enables the webpage to be interpreted in the same format by different browsers.

● Explain the difference between <div> and <span> tags.

Div element is used to group content, so it can be easily styled, it is a container for HTML elements and is a block-level element. 
The Span element is used for inline organisation & styling.

● What is semantic HTML, and why is it important?

Semantic HTML tags define the meaning of the content they contain.
It enables it to be comprehensible and defines the different sections and layout of the webpage. 
It improves the accessibility of the document, and browsers can interpret the code better and this helps the SEO.



CSS Fundamentals (10 points):

● Describe the difference between margin and padding.

Margin: create space around elements outside of any defined borders. (Outside space of element itself)
Padding: space around the elements content, inside of any defines borders. (Inner space surrounding the element)

● What is the box model in CSS?

Is a box that wraps around each HTML element. It consists of margins, borders, padding and content.
We are able to add borders around elements and define the space between elements.

● Explain the CSS specificity hierarchy.

If there are two or more rules that apply to a particular element, the selector with the highest specificity value will be applied to the HTML Element.



Responsive Design (10 points):

● What is a media query, and how is it used in responsive design?

Media queries enable us to create different layouts depending on the size of the viewport/device type.

● Discuss the differences between adaptive and responsive design.

Adaptive Design: The browser generates a layout that is created for the specific platform.
Responsive Design: Is a fluid approach where a page can restructure itself based on the detected screen size.

● Explain the concept of a viewport in web development.

A viewport is the area of the window in which the web content can be seen.



HTML5 and CSS3 Features (10 points):

● List and briefly explain three new features introduced in HTML5.
New features of html5 include:
- Audio and video
-Header & Footer
- Navigation tag 

● What are CSS variables, and how do they differ from traditional variables in
programming languages?

-

● Discuss the advantages of using Flexbox or Grid layout in CSS.

Advantages of Flexbox: easier to adapt the position and size of elements or modify the order.
Advantages of Grid: Able to create complex and structured layouts, this is 2 dimensional and is automatically responsive, adapts to different screens and improves user experience.

Coding Section (60 points):

HTML (20 points):
● Create a simple HTML form that includes text input, radio buttons, checkboxes, and a
submit button.
● Implement an ordered list with three list items, each containing an anchor link.
CSS (20 points):
● Style the form from the previous question, ensuring it has a visually appealing layout.
● Create a CSS animation that applies a smooth transition to a specific element (e.g.,
changing color or size).
Responsive Design (20 points):
● Implement a responsive navigation menu that collapses into a burger menu for
smaller screens.
● Create a media query to adjust the layout when the screen width is below 600 pixels.
